docs-ref-conceptual/authenticate-azure-cli.md, before:

---
title: Log in with Azure CLI 2.0
description: Log in with the Azure CLI 2.0 interactively or with local credentials 
author: sptramer
ms.author: sttramer
manager: carmonm
ms.date: 02/13/2018
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.technology: azure-cli
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.service: active-directory
ms.component: authentication
---

# Log in with Azure CLI 2.0

There are several ways to log in and authenticate with the Azure CLI. The easiest way to get started is to log in interactively through your browser through either Azure Cloud Shell or the `az login` command.
The recommended approach is to use service principals, which are permissions-restricted accounts. By granting just the appropriate permissions needed to a service principal, you can ensure your automation
scripts are even more secure.

None of your private credential information is stored locally. Instead, an authentication token is generated by Azure and stored. After logging in, your login token is valid until it goes for 14 days
without being used. At that point, you need to re-authenticate.

After logging in, CLI Commands are run against your default subscription. If you have more than one subscription, you can [change your default subscription](manage-azure-subscriptions-azure-cli.md).

## Interactive log-in

Log in interactively from your web browser.

[!INCLUDE [interactive_login](includes/interactive-login.md)]

## Command line

Provide your Azure user credentials on the command line.

> [!Note]
> This approach doesn't work with Microsoft accounts or accounts that have two-factor authentication enabled.

```azurecli
az login -u <username> -p <password>
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you want to avoid displaying your password on console and are using `az login` interactively,
> use the `read -s` command under `bash`.
> 
> ```bash
> read -sp "Azure password: " AZ_PASS && echo && az login -u <username> -p $AZ_PASS
> ```
>
> Under PowerShell, use the `Read-Host -AsSecureString` cmdlet and secure string conversion.
> 
> ```powershell
> $securePass =  Read-Host "Azure password: " -AsSecureString;
> $AzPass = [Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::PtrToStringAuto([Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::SecureStringToBSTR($securePass));
> az login -u <username> -p $AzPass;
> $AzPass = ""
> ```

## Log in with a specific tenant

If you work with multiple tenants, you can select your tenant to log in under with the `--tenant` argument. The value of this argument can either be an `.onmicrosoft.com` domain
or the Azure object ID for the tenant. You can log in interactively, or provide your credentials with the `--user` and `--password` arguments. 

```azurecli
az login --tenant <tenant>
```

## Log in with a service principal

Service principals are accounts not tied to any particular user, which can have permissions on them assigned through
pre-defined roles. Authenticating with a service principal is the best way to write secure scripts or programs,
allowing you to apply both permissions restrictions and locally stored static credential information. To learn more
about service principals, see [Create an Azure service principal with the Azure CLI](create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli.md).

To log in with a service principal, you provide the username, password or certificate PEM file, and the tenant associated with the service principal:

```azurecli
az login --service-principal -u <app-url> -p <password-or-cert> --tenant <tenant>
```

The tenant value is the Azure Active Directory tenant associated with the service principal. This can either be an `.onmicrosoft.com` domain or the Azure object ID for the tenant.
You can get the tenant object ID for your current login by using the following command:

```azurecli-interactive
az account show --query 'tenantId' -o tsv
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you want to avoid displaying your password on console and are using `az login` interactively,
> use the `read -s` command under `bash`.
> 
> ```bash
> read -sp "Azure password: " AZ_PASS && echo && az login --service-principal -u <app-url> -p $AZ_PASS --tenant <tenant>
> ```
>
> Under PowerShell, use the `Read-Host -AsSecureString` cmdlet and secure string conversion.
> 
> ```powershell
> $securePass =  Read-Host "Azure password: " -AsSecureString;
> $AzPass = [Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::PtrToStringAuto([Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::SecureStringToBSTR($securePass));
> az login --service-principal -u <app-url> -p $AzPass --tenant <tenant>;
> $AzPass = ""
> ```

Commit message:

Update docs to reference the new sign in flow.

docs-ref-conceptual/authenticate-azure-cli.md, after:

---
title: Log in with Azure CLI 2.0
description: Log in with the Azure CLI 2.0 interactively or with local credentials 
author: sptramer
ms.author: sttramer
manager: carmonm
ms.date: 02/13/2018
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.technology: azure-cli
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.service: active-directory
ms.component: authentication
---

# Log in with Azure CLI 2.0

There are several ways to log in and authenticate with the Azure CLI. The easiest way to get started is to log in interactively through your browser through either Azure Cloud Shell or the `az login` command.
The recommended approach is to use service principals, which are permissions-restricted accounts. By granting just the appropriate permissions needed to a service principal, you can ensure your automation
scripts are even more secure.

None of your private credential information is stored locally. Instead, an authentication token is generated by Azure and stored. After logging in, your login token is valid until it goes for 14 days
without being used. At that point, you need to re-authenticate.

After logging in, CLI Commands are run against your default subscription. If you have more than one subscription, you can [change your default subscription](manage-azure-subscriptions-azure-cli.md).

## Interactive sign in

The Azure CLI's default authentication method is to sign in interactively from your web browser.

[!INCLUDE [interactive_login](includes/interactive-login.md)]

## Command line

Provide your Azure user credentials on the command line.

> [!Note]
> This approach doesn't work with Microsoft accounts or accounts that have two-factor authentication enabled.

```azurecli
az login -u <username> -p <password>
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you want to avoid displaying your password on console and are using `az login` interactively,
> use the `read -s` command under `bash`.
> 
> ```bash
> read -sp "Azure password: " AZ_PASS && echo && az login -u <username> -p $AZ_PASS
> ```
>
> Under PowerShell, use the `Read-Host -AsSecureString` cmdlet and secure string conversion.
> 
> ```powershell
> $securePass =  Read-Host "Azure password: " -AsSecureString;
> $AzPass = [Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::PtrToStringAuto([Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::SecureStringToBSTR($securePass));
> az login -u <username> -p $AzPass;
> $AzPass = ""
> ```

## Log in with a specific tenant

If you work with multiple tenants, you can select your tenant to log in under with the `--tenant` argument. The value of this argument can either be an `.onmicrosoft.com` domain
or the Azure object ID for the tenant. You can log in interactively, or provide your credentials with the `--user` and `--password` arguments. 

```azurecli
az login --tenant <tenant>
```

## Log in with a service principal

Service principals are accounts not tied to any particular user, which can have permissions on them assigned through
pre-defined roles. Authenticating with a service principal is the best way to write secure scripts or programs,
allowing you to apply both permissions restrictions and locally stored static credential information. To learn more
about service principals, see [Create an Azure service principal with the Azure CLI](create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli.md).

To log in with a service principal, you provide the username, password or certificate PEM file, and the tenant associated with the service principal:

```azurecli
az login --service-principal -u <app-url> -p <password-or-cert> --tenant <tenant>
```

The tenant value is the Azure Active Directory tenant associated with the service principal. This can either be an `.onmicrosoft.com` domain or the Azure object ID for the tenant.
You can get the tenant object ID for your current login by using the following command:

```azurecli-interactive
az account show --query 'tenantId' -o tsv
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you want to avoid displaying your password on console and are using `az login` interactively,
> use the `read -s` command under `bash`.
> 
> ```bash
> read -sp "Azure password: " AZ_PASS && echo && az login --service-principal -u <app-url> -p $AZ_PASS --tenant <tenant>
> ```
>
> Under PowerShell, use the `Read-Host -AsSecureString` cmdlet and secure string conversion.
> 
> ```powershell
> $securePass =  Read-Host "Azure password: " -AsSecureString;
> $AzPass = [Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::PtrToStringAuto([Runtime.InteropServices.Marshal]::SecureStringToBSTR($securePass));
> az login --service-principal -u <app-url> -p $AzPass --tenant <tenant>;
> $AzPass = ""
> ```
