---
title: Sign in with the Azure CLI
description: Sign in with the Azure CLI interactively or with local credentials 
author: sptramer
ms.author: sttramer
manager: carmonm
ms.date: 09/07/2018
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.technology: azure-cli
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.component: authentication
---

# Sign in with Azure CLI 

There are several authentication types for the Azure CLI. The easiest way to get started is with [Azure Cloud Shell](/azure/cloud-shell/overview), which automatically logs you in.
Locally, you can sign in interactively through your browser with the [az login](/cli/azure/reference-index#az-login) command. When writing scripts, the recommended approach is
to use service principals. By granting just the appropriate permissions needed to a service principal, you can keep your automation secure.

None of your sign-in information is stored by the CLI. Instead, an [authentication refresh token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v1-id-and-access-tokens#refresh-tokens)
is generated by Azure and stored. As of August 2018 this token is revoked after 90 days of inactivity, but this value can be changed by Microsoft or your tenant administrator. Once the token is revoked
you get a message from the CLI saying you need to sign in again.

After signing in, CLI commands are run against your default subscription. If you have multiple subscriptions, you can [change your default subscription](manage-azure-subscriptions-azure-cli.md).

## Sign in interactively

The Azure CLI's default authentication method uses a web browser and access token to sign in.

[!INCLUDE [interactive_login](includes/interactive-login.md)]

## Sign in with credentials on the command line

Provide your Azure user credentials on the command line.

> [!Note]
> This approach doesn't work with Microsoft accounts or accounts that have two-factor authentication enabled.

```azurecli-interactive
az login -u <username> -p <password>
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you want to avoid displaying your password on console and are using `az login` interactively,
> use the `read -s` command under `bash`.
>
> ```bash
> read -sp "Azure password: " AZ_PASS && echo && az login -u <username> -p $AZ_PASS
> ```
>
> Under PowerShell, use the `Get-Credential` cmdlet.
>
> ```powershell
> $AzCred = Get-Credential -UserName <username>
> az login -u $AzCred.UserName -p $AzCred.GetNetworkCredential().Password
> ```

## Sign in with a service principal

Service principals are accounts not tied to any particular user, which can have permissions on them assigned through
pre-defined roles. Authenticating with a service principal is the best way to write secure scripts or programs,
allowing you to apply both permissions restrictions and locally stored static credential information. To learn more
about service principals, see [Create an Azure service principal with the Azure CLI](create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli.md).

To sign in with a service principal, you need:

* The URL or name associated with the service principal
* The service principal password, or the X509 certificate used to create the service principal in PEM format
* The tenant associated with the service principal, as either an `.onmicrosoft.com` domain or Azure object ID

```azurecli-interactive
az login --service-principal -u <app-url> -p <password-or-cert> --tenant <tenant>
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you want to avoid displaying your password on console and are using `az login` interactively,
> use the `read -s` command under `bash`.
>
> ```bash
> read -sp "Azure password: " AZ_PASS && echo && az login --service-principal -u <app-url> -p $AZ_PASS --tenant <tenant>
> ```
>
> Under PowerShell, use the `Get-Credential` cmdlet.
>
> ```powershell
> $AzCred = Get-Credential -UserName <app-url>
> az login -u $AzCred.UserName -p $AzCred.GetNetworkCredential().Password --tenant <tenant>
> ```

## Sign in with a different tenant

You can select a tenant to sign in under with the `--tenant` argument. The value of this argument can either be an `.onmicrosoft.com` domain or the Azure object ID for the tenant. Both
interactive and command-line sign in methods work with `--tenant`.

```azurecli-interactive
az login --tenant <tenant>
```

## Sign in with a managed identity

On resources configured for managed identities for Azure resources, you can sign in using the managed identity. Signing in with the resource's identity is done through the `--identity` flag.

```azurecli-interactive
az login --identity
```

To learn more about managed identities for Azure resources, see [Configure managed identities for Azure resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/qs-configure-cli-windows-vm) and [Use managed identities for Azure resources for sign in](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-to-use-vm-sign-in).
