docs-ref-conceptual/install-azure-cli-linux.md, before:

---
title: Install the Azure CLI 2.0 for Linux manually
description: How to install the Azure CLI 2.0 on Linux manually
author: sptramer
ms.author: sttramer
manager: routlaw
ms.date: 01/29/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.service: multiple
---

# Install Azure CLI 2.0 on Linux manually

If you do not have a package for the Azure CLI available on your distribution, you can always install the CLI manually by
running an installation script.

> [!NOTE]
> It's strongly recommend that you use a package manager for the CLI. A package manager makes sure you always get the latest updates,
> and guarantees the stability of CLI components. Check and see if there is a package for your distribution before
> installing manually.

## Prerequisites

In order to install the CLI, you need the following software available on your system:

* [Python 2.7 or Python 3.x](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* [libffi](https://sourceware.org/libffi/)
* [OpenSSL 1.0.2](https://www.openssl.org/source/)

## Install or update

Whether you are installing or updating the CLI, you need to perform a full installation. Once you have the prerequisites, you can
install the CLI by running `curl`.

```bash
curl -L https://aka.ms/InstallAzureCli | bash
```

You can also download the script and run it locally instead. You may have to restart
your shell in order for changes to take effect. After installation, run the CLI with the `az` command.

## Troubleshooting

Here are some common problems seen during a manual installation. If your issue is not listed here, please [file an issue on github](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cli/issues).
### curl "Object Moved" error

If you get an error from `curl` related to the `-L` parameter, or an error message including the text "Object Moved", try using
the full URL instead of the `aka.ms` redirect:

```bash
curl https://azurecliprod.blob.core.windows.net/install | bash
```

### `az` command not found

If you can't run the command after installation and using `bash` or `zsh`, clear your shell's command hash cache. Run

```bash
hash -r
```

and check if the problem is resolved.

The issue can also occur if you did not restart your shell after installation. Make sure that the location of the `az` command is in your `$PATH`. The location
of the `az` command is

```bash
<install path>/bin
```

## Uninstall

[!INCLUDE [uninstall-boilerplate.md](includes/uninstall-boilerplate.md)]

Uninstall the CLI by directly deleting the files from the location chosen at the time of installation. The default install location is `$HOME`.

1. Remove the installed CLI files.

  ```bash
  rm -r <install location>/lib/azure-cli
  rm <install location>/bin/az
  ```
2. Modify your `$HOME/.bash_profile` file to remove the following line:

  ```
  <install location>/lib/azure-cli/az.completion
  ```

3. If using `bash` or `zsh`, reload your shell's command cache.

  ```bash
  hash -r
  ```

Commit message:

CC50839: Adds installation via pip
Hello, @sptramer,

This proposed file change comes from this Community Contribution:  https://github.com/Azure/azure-docs-cli-python.es-es/pull/2/files

Please, help to check this proposed file change into the article and help to merge if you agree with fix. If not, please, let me know either if you would like me to fix it in another way within this PR, if you prefer to fix it in another PR or if I should close this PR as by-design. In case of using another PR, please, let me know of your PR number, so we can confirm and close this PR.

Many thanks in advance.

docs-ref-conceptual/install-azure-cli-linux.md, after:

---
title: Install the Azure CLI 2.0 for Linux manually
description: How to install the Azure CLI 2.0 on Linux manually
author: sptramer
ms.author: sttramer
manager: routlaw
ms.date: 01/29/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.service: multiple
---

# Install Azure CLI 2.0 on Linux manually

If you do not have a package for the Azure CLI available on your distribution, you can always install the CLI manually by
running an installation script.

> [!NOTE]
> It's strongly recommend that you use a package manager for the CLI. A package manager makes sure you always get the latest updates,
> and guarantees the stability of CLI components. Check and see if there is a package for your distribution before
> installing manually.

## Prerequisites

In order to install the CLI, you need the following software available on your system:

* [Python 2.7 or Python 3.x](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* [libffi](https://sourceware.org/libffi/)
* [OpenSSL 1.0.2](https://www.openssl.org/source/)

## Install or update

Whether you are installing or updating the CLI, you need to perform a full installation. Once you have the prerequisites, you can
install the CLI by running `curl`.

```bash
curl -L https://aka.ms/InstallAzureCli | bash
```

You can also download the script and run it locally. For what some changes take effect, you may have to restart the shell. After installation, run the CLI with the `az` command.

The [Azure CLI is also available in the Python module repositories](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/azure-cli). HE can install in the usual way pip install azure-cli in Linux as well as in Windows or MacOS.

## Troubleshooting

Here are some common problems seen during a manual installation. If your issue is not listed here, please [file an issue on github](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cli/issues).
### curl "Object Moved" error

If you get an error from `curl` related to the `-L` parameter, or an error message including the text "Object Moved", try using
the full URL instead of the `aka.ms` redirect:

```bash
curl https://azurecliprod.blob.core.windows.net/install | bash
```

### `az` command not found

If you can't run the command after installation and using `bash` or `zsh`, clear your shell's command hash cache. Run

```bash
hash -r
```

and check if the problem is resolved.

The issue can also occur if you did not restart your shell after installation. Make sure that the location of the `az` command is in your `$PATH`. The location
of the `az` command is

```bash
<install path>/bin
```

## Uninstall

[!INCLUDE [uninstall-boilerplate.md](includes/uninstall-boilerplate.md)]

Uninstall the CLI by directly deleting the files from the location chosen at the time of installation. The default install location is `$HOME`.

1. Remove the installed CLI files.

  ```bash
  rm -r <install location>/lib/azure-cli
  rm <install location>/bin/az
  ```
2. Modify your `$HOME/.bash_profile` file to remove the following line:

  ```
  <install location>/lib/azure-cli/az.completion
  ```

3. If using `bash` or `zsh`, reload your shell's command cache.

  ```bash
  hash -r
  ```
