docs-ref-conceptual/install-azure-cli-macos.md, before:

---
title: Install the Azure CLI for macOS
description: How to install the Azure CLI on macOS
author: sptramer
ms.author: sttramer
manager: carmonm
ms.date: 11/05/2018
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure-cli
ms.devlang: azurecli
---

# Install Azure CLI on macOS

For the macOS platform, you can install the Azure CLI with [homebrew package manager](https://brew.sh). Homebrew makes it easy to keep your
installation of the CLI update to date. The CLI package has been tested on macOS versions 10.9 and later.

[!INCLUDE [current-version](includes/current-version.md)]

## Install

Homebrew is the easiest way to manage your CLI install. It provides convenient ways to install, update, and uninstall.
If you don't have homebrew available on your system, [install homebrew](https://docs.brew.sh/Installation.html) before continuing.

You can install the CLI by updating your brew repository information, and then running the `install` command:

```bash
brew update && brew install azure-cli
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> The Azure CLI has a dependency on the `python3` package in Homebrew, and will install it on your system, even
> if Python 2 is available. The Azure CLI is guaranteed to be compatible with the latest version of `python3`
> published on Homebrew.

You can then run the Azure CLI with the `az` command. To sign in, use [az login](/cli/azure/reference-index#az-login) command.

[!INCLUDE [interactive-login](includes/interactive-login.md)]

To learn more about different authentication methods, see [Sign in with Azure CLI](authenticate-azure-cli.md).

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter a problem when installing the CLI through Homebrew, here are some common errors. If you experience a problem not covered here, [file an issue on github](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cli/issues).

### Unable to find Python or installed packages

There may be a minor version mismatch or other issue during homebrew installation. The CLI doesn't use a Python virtual environment, so it relies on finding
the installed Python version. A possible fix is to install and relink the `python3` dependency from Homebrew.

```bash
brew update && brew install python3 && brew upgrade python3
brew link --overwrite python3
```

### CLI version 1.x is installed

If an out-of-date version was installed, it could be because of a stale homebrew cache. Follow the [update](#Update) instructions.

## Update

The CLI is regularly updated with bug fixes, improvements, new features, and preview functionality. A new release is available roughly every
two weeks. Update your local repository information and then upgrade the `azure-cli` package.

```bash
brew update && brew upgrade azure-cli
```

## Uninstall

[!INCLUDE [uninstall-boilerplate.md](includes/uninstall-boilerplate.md)]

Use homebrew to uninstall the `azure-cli` package.

```bash
brew uninstall azure-cli
```

## Other installation methods

If you can't use homebrew to install the Azure CLI in your environment, it's possible to use the manual instructions for Linux. Note that
this process is not officially maintained to be compatible with macOS. Using a package manager such as Homebrew is always recommended. Only use the manual
installation method if you have no other option available.

For the manual installation instructions, see [Install Azure CLI on Linux manually](install-azure-cli-linux.md).

## Next Steps

Now that you've installed the Azure CLI, take a short tour of its features and common commands.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Get started with the Azure CLI](get-started-with-azure-cli.md)

Commit message:

Add proxy information to install troubleshooting.

docs-ref-conceptual/install-azure-cli-macos.md, after:

---
title: Install the Azure CLI for macOS
description: How to install the Azure CLI on macOS
author: sptramer
ms.author: sttramer
manager: carmonm
ms.date: 11/05/2018
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure-cli
ms.devlang: azurecli
---

# Install Azure CLI on macOS

For the macOS platform, you can install the Azure CLI with [homebrew package manager](https://brew.sh). Homebrew makes it easy to keep your
installation of the CLI update to date. The CLI package has been tested on macOS versions 10.9 and later.

[!INCLUDE [current-version](includes/current-version.md)]

## Install

Homebrew is the easiest way to manage your CLI install. It provides convenient ways to install, update, and uninstall.
If you don't have homebrew available on your system, [install homebrew](https://docs.brew.sh/Installation.html) before continuing.

You can install the CLI by updating your brew repository information, and then running the `install` command:

```bash
brew update && brew install azure-cli
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> The Azure CLI has a dependency on the `python3` package in Homebrew, and will install it on your system, even
> if Python 2 is available. The Azure CLI is guaranteed to be compatible with the latest version of `python3`
> published on Homebrew.

You can then run the Azure CLI with the `az` command. To sign in, use [az login](/cli/azure/reference-index#az-login) command.

[!INCLUDE [interactive-login](includes/interactive-login.md)]

To learn more about different authentication methods, see [Sign in with Azure CLI](authenticate-azure-cli.md).

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter a problem when installing the CLI through Homebrew, here are some common errors. If you experience a problem not covered here, [file an issue on github](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cli/issues).

### Unable to find Python or installed packages

There may be a minor version mismatch or other issue during homebrew installation. The CLI doesn't use a Python virtual environment, so it relies on finding
the installed Python version. A possible fix is to install and relink the `python3` dependency from Homebrew.

```bash
brew update && brew install python3 && brew upgrade python3
brew link --overwrite python3
```

### CLI version 1.x is installed

If an out-of-date version was installed, it could be because of a stale homebrew cache. Follow the [update](#Update) instructions.

### Proxy blocks connection

You may be unable to get resources from Homebrew unless you have correctly configured it to
use your proxy. Follow the [Homebrew proxy configuration instructions](https://docs.brew.sh/Manpage#using-homebrew-behind-a-proxy).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you are behind a proxy, `HTTP_PROXY` and `HTTPS_PROXY` must be set to connect to Azure services with the CLI.
> If you are not using basic auth, it's recommended to export these variables in your `.bashrc` file.
> Always follow your business' security policies and the requirements of your system administrator.

In order to get the bottle resources from Homebrew, your proxy needs to allow HTTPS connections to
the following addresses:

* `https://formulae.brew.sh`
* `https://homebrew.bintray.com`

## Update

The CLI is regularly updated with bug fixes, improvements, new features, and preview functionality. A new release is available roughly every
two weeks. Update your local repository information and then upgrade the `azure-cli` package.

```bash
brew update && brew upgrade azure-cli
```

## Uninstall

[!INCLUDE [uninstall-boilerplate.md](includes/uninstall-boilerplate.md)]

Use homebrew to uninstall the `azure-cli` package.

```bash
brew uninstall azure-cli
```

## Other installation methods

If you can't use homebrew to install the Azure CLI in your environment, it's possible to use the manual instructions for Linux. Note that
this process is not officially maintained to be compatible with macOS. Using a package manager such as Homebrew is always recommended. Only use the manual
installation method if you have no other option available.

For the manual installation instructions, see [Install Azure CLI on Linux manually](install-azure-cli-linux.md).

## Next Steps

Now that you've installed the Azure CLI, take a short tour of its features and common commands.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Get started with the Azure CLI](get-started-with-azure-cli.md)
