docs-ref-conceptual/overview.md, before:

---
title: Azure CLI 2.0
description: Overview of the Azure CLI 2.0.
keywords: Azure CLI 2.0, Linux, Mac, Windows, OS X, Ubuntu, Debian, CentOS, RHEL, SUSE, CoreOS, Docker, Windows, Python, PIP
author: allclark
manager: douge
ms.date: 02/22/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.assetid: 80ae9f6c-adb7-483c-bfb4-fbb958e075ba
---

# Overview of the Azure CLI 2.0

The Azure CLI 2.0 is Azure's new command line experience in Bash for managing Azure resources.  
Azure CLI 2.0 is now available on [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cli).  For help with installation please see our [Install article] (install-az-cli2.md).

Azure CLI 2.0 works with the Resource Manager deployment model and can be used for all management tasks.

The table below lists which services are generally available and which are still in preview.  The table will be updated regularly as we make more of our services generally available to customers.


| General availability | Preview      |
|----------------------|--------------|
| Container Service    | App services |
| Network              | Batch        |
| Resource Manager     | DocumentDB   |
| Storage              | IoT          |
| Virtual Machines     | Key Vault    |
|                      | Redis        |
|                      | Role         |
|                      | SQL          |

[Get started](get-started-with-az-cli2.md) with Azure CLI 2.0 now.


> [!Note]
> If you use the previous version of the CLI (Azure CLI), you can continue to use it.  If you use both CLIs, remember that `azure` is the old CLI - Azure CLI, and that `az` is the new CLI - Azure CLI 2.0.

Commit message:

Further updates after GA vs. preview discussion

docs-ref-conceptual/overview.md, after:

---
title: Azure CLI 2.0
description: Overview of the Azure CLI 2.0.
keywords: Azure CLI 2.0, Linux, Mac, Windows, OS X, Ubuntu, Debian, CentOS, RHEL, SUSE, CoreOS, Docker, Windows, Python, PIP
author: allclark
manager: douge
ms.date: 02/22/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.assetid: 80ae9f6c-adb7-483c-bfb4-fbb958e075ba
---

# Overview of the Azure CLI 2.0

The Azure CLI 2.0 is Azure's new command line experience for managing Azure resources.  It can be used on macOS, Linux, and Windows
Azure CLI 2.0 is now available on [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-cli).  For help with installation please see our [Install article] (install-az-cli2.md).

Azure CLI 2.0 works with the Resource Manager deployment model and is optimized for managing and administering Azure resources from the command line as well as building automation scripts.

The table below lists which services are generally available.  We are continually adding new commands and will update the table regularly as we make more of our services generally available to customers.


| General availability |
|----------------------|
| Container Service    |
| Networking           |
| Resource Manager     |
| Storage              |
| Virtual Machines     |
|                      |
|                      |

[Get started](get-started-with-az-cli2.md) with Azure CLI 2.0 now.


> [!Note]
> If you use the previous version of the CLI (Azure CLI), you can continue to use it.  If you use both CLIs, remember that `azure` is the old CLI - Azure CLI, and that `az` is the new CLI - Azure CLI 2.0.
