docs-ref-conceptual/run-azure-cli-docker.md, before:

---
title: Run Azure CLI 2.0 in a Docker Container
description: How to run a Docker container hosting the Azure CLI 2.0
author: sptramer
ms.author: sttramer
manager: routlaw
ms.date: 01/29/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.service: multiple
---

# Run Azure CLI 2.0 in a Docker container

You can use Docker to run a standalone Linux container with the Azure CLI 2.0 pre-installed. Docker lets you get started quickly
with an environment where you can try out the CLI to decide if it's right for you, or use our image as a base for your own deployment.

## Run in a Docker container

Install the CLI using `docker run`.

   ```bash
   docker run -it microsoft/azure-cli
   ```

The CLI is installed on the image as the `az` command in `/usr/local/bin`.

> [!NOTE]
> If you want to pick up the SSH keys from your user environment,
> you can use `-v ${HOME}:/root` to mount $HOME as `/root`.

> ```bash
> docker run -it -v ${HOME}:/root microsoft/azure-cli
> ```

## Update Docker image

Updating with Docker requires both pulling the new image and re-creating any existing containers. For this reason you should
try to avoid using a container that hosts the CLI as a data store.

Update your local image with `docker pull`.

```bash
docker pull microsoft/azure-cli
```

## Uninstall Docker image

[!INCLUDE [uninstall-boilerplate.md](includes/uninstall-boilerplate.md)]

After halting any containers running the CLI image, remove it.

```bash
docker rmi microsoft/azure-cli
```

Commit message:

Add login instructions after install [Closes #748]

docs-ref-conceptual/run-azure-cli-docker.md, after:

---
title: Run Azure CLI 2.0 in a Docker Container
description: How to run a Docker container hosting the Azure CLI 2.0
author: sptramer
ms.author: sttramer
manager: routlaw
ms.date: 01/29/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.service: multiple
---

# Run Azure CLI 2.0 in a Docker container

You can use Docker to run a standalone Linux container with the Azure CLI 2.0 pre-installed. Docker lets you get started quickly
with an environment where you can try out the CLI to decide if it's right for you, or use our image as a base for your own deployment.

## Run in a Docker container

Install the CLI using `docker run`.

   ```bash
   docker run -it microsoft/azure-cli
   ```

The CLI is installed on the image as the `az` command in `/usr/local/bin`. To log in, run the `az login` command.

```azurecli
az login
```

To learn more about different login methods, see [Log in with Azure CLI 2.0](authenticate-azure-cli.md).

> [!NOTE]
> If you want to pick up the SSH keys from your user environment,
> you can use `-v ${HOME}:/root` to mount $HOME as `/root`.

> ```bash
> docker run -it -v ${HOME}:/root microsoft/azure-cli
> ```

## Update Docker image

Updating with Docker requires both pulling the new image and re-creating any existing containers. For this reason you should
try to avoid using a container that hosts the CLI as a data store.

Update your local image with `docker pull`.

```bash
docker pull microsoft/azure-cli
```

## Uninstall Docker image

[!INCLUDE [uninstall-boilerplate.md](includes/uninstall-boilerplate.md)]

After halting any containers running the CLI image, remove it.

```bash
docker rmi microsoft/azure-cli
```
