---
title: Azure CLI samples full list | Microsoft Docs
description: Find links to Azure CLI samples.  Search by Azure service, command name, or GitHub file name.
author: dbradish-microsoft
ms.author: dbradish
ms.date: 06/01/2024
ms.service: azure-cli
ms.tool: azure-cli
ms.topic: sample 
ms.custom: devx-track-azurecli
---
<!-- This article is autogenerated. To change the "Sample name" column value, modify the H1 of the article.-->

# Azure CLI sample scripts

Azure CLI samples provide end-to-end scenarios for jobs to be done. This article provides an A - Z list of Azure CLI samples written for Bash environments.

Not every Azure CLI reference command is used in a sample script. For a complete list of Azure CLI commands, see the [A - Z reference list](/cli/azure/reference-index).  For a list of popular conceptual content for each reference group, see [Azure CLI conceptual article list](./reference-docs-index.md).

## List of samples

Use these three tabs to find Azure CLI samples.  [List by subject area](/cli/azure/samples-index?tabs=service) and [List by reference group](/cli/azure/samples-index?tabs=command) tabs contain the same samples. Only the sort is different. The [Azure CLI samples GitHub repository](/cli/azure/samples-index?tabs=github) tab has more samples as not every GitHub sample is used in an article.

# [List by subject area](#tab/service)

Use this list of Azure CLI samples to find samples for the subject area that _published_ the script.  (Many Azure CLI scripts use reference commands from more than one Azure service.)

[!INCLUDE [sample-list-azure-service](includes/samples-azure-service.md)]

# [List by reference group](#tab/command)

Use this list of Azure CLI samples to find scripts that demonstrate a particular command.

[!INCLUDE [sample-list-reference-group](includes/samples-reference-group.md)]

# [Azure CLI samples GitHub repository](#tab/github)

_Some_ Azure services store their Azure CLI samples in the [Azure-samples/azure-cli-samples](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-cli-samples) GitHub repository.  Most of these samples have a conceptual article published that provides more explanation.  However, if you prefer to go straight to the script source, use the GitHub file links provided here.  For a more complete list of Azure CLI samples, use the **List by Azure service** or **List by reference command** tabs.

For space considerations, some common Azure CLI commands, like `az group` are removed from the delimited list of reference commands.

[!INCLUDE [samples-azure-cli-samples-repo](includes/samples-azure-cli-samples-repo.md)]

---
