---
title: Log in with Azure CLI 2.0
description: Log in with Azure 2.0 CLI on Linux, Mac, or Windows.
keywords: Azure CLI 2.0, login, Azure CLI, authentication, authorize, log in
author: sptramer
ms.author: stttramer
manager: routlaw
ms.date: 11/13/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: azure
ms.technology: azure
ms.devlang: azurecli
ms.service: multiple
ms.assetid: 65becd3a-9d69-4415-8a30-777d13a0e7aa
---

# Log in with Azure CLI 2.0

There are several ways to log in and authenticate with the Azure CLI. The simplest way to get started is to log in interactively through your browser, or to log in at the command line. Our recommended approach is to use service principals, which provide a way for you to create non-interactive accounts that you can use to manipulate resources. By granting just the appropriate permissions needed to a service principal, you can ensure your automation scripts are even more secure.

None of your private credential information is stored locally. Instead, an authentication token is generated by Azure and stored. After logging in, your local login token is valid until it goes for 14 days without being used. At that point, you will need to re-authenticate.

After logging in, CLI Commands are run against your default subscription. If you have more than one subscription, you may want to [change your default subscription](manage-azure-subscriptions-azure-cli.md).

## Interactive log-in

Log in interactively from your web browser.

[!INCLUDE [interactive_login](includes/interactive-login.md)]

## Command line

Provide your credentials on the command line.

> [!Note]
> This approach doesn't work with Microsoft accounts or accounts that have two-factor authentication enabled.

```azurecli-interactive
az login -u <username> 
```

## Logging in with a service principal

Service principals are like user accounts to which you can apply rules using Azure Active Directory.
Authenticating with a service principal is the best way to secure the usage of your Azure resources
from either your scripts or applications that manipulate resources. If you don't already have a service principal available and
would like to create one, see [Create an Azure service principal with the Azure CLI](create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli.md).

To log in with a service principal, you provide the username, password or certificate PEM file, and the tenant associated with the service principal:

```azurecli-interactive
az login --service-principal -u <user> -p <password-or-cert> --tenant <tenant>
```

The tenant value is the Azure Active Directory tenant associated with the service principal. This can either be an .onmicrosoft.com domain, or the Azure object ID for the tenant.
You can get the tenant object ID for your current login by using the following command:

```azurecli
az account show --query 'tenantId' -o tsv
```

